New documentation page for notifications (#2573)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/content/development/notifications.mdx

---
title: Notifications
---

In the previous sections, we learned how to develop forms. In this section we focus on providing users with relevant information in response to a successful or failed form submission.

To facilitate the use of notifications, Custom Applications come with a built-in [notification system](https://docs.commercetools.com/custom-applications/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-actions-global#notification-system).

# Notification system

Notifications are an important way of providing feedback in response to user actions.

> Submission of a form might end with a success, but for various reasons it might also fail.
> Either way, a user should be informed what was the end result of the action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example submitting a form might succeed or fail and as a result the user should be notified about that in a way that is understandable and easy to find.
```

> The Custom Application built-in notification system provides a way of showing notifications by dispatching Redux actions throught bound action creators or React hooks exposed from the [`@commercetools-frontend/actions-global`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-actions-global) package.
> Notifications can be dispatched in one of the predefined placement options (referred to as **domains**, for instance `page` or `side`) and in one of various kinds depending on the domain (for instance `error`, `warning` or `success`).

Reviewer: I wouldn't go much into the technical details but give a general overview of how it works.

```suggestion
Notifications are grouped by what we call "domains". A domain indicates where the application should be displayed on the page.

* `page`: Page notifications are displayed on top of the content page.
* `side`: Side notifications are smaller and they slide in from the right side of the page.

Notifications are also of different types: `success`, `error`, `warning`, `info`. Depending on the specific use case you would choose the appropriate type. For example, if a form has been successfully submitted, you would show a "side" notification of type `success`.

Triggering notifications is done by dispatching global actions. Please refer to the package [`@commercetools-frontend/actions-global`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-actions-global) for implementation details.
```

<Info>

> For defining the domain and the type of a notification we recommend using the values exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.

Reviewer: We should mention these values or give a couple of examples.

</Info>

> ## Side notifications

Reviewer: I think I would structure the page something like this:

```
# Notification system

# Side notifications

# Page notifications

# Using notifications in a form

## Form submitted successfully

## Form submitted with errors

# Testing
```

> ![Side notifications](/images/notifications-side.png)

Reviewer: Nice!

## Page notifications

![Page notifications](/images/notifications-api-error.png)

> # Notifications best practices

Reviewer: I would split and include these into each section "Side notifications" and "Page notifications"

Reviewer: I would also explain a bit more that side notifications are meant to disappear after a couple of seconds but page notifications do not, and the user has to manually close them.

## GraphQL

<Info>

More information about GraphQL errors can be found on the [GraphQL API page](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/graphql#error-response-format).

</Info>

The basic implementation of dispatching error notifications in the `Channels` application might look like this:
```js title="channels-details.js" highlightLines="2,6,13-19"
// ...
import { useShowApiErrorNotification } from '@commercetools-frontend/actions-global';

const ChannelsDetails = (props) => {
  // ...
  const showApiErrorNotification = useShowApiErrorNotification();
  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    async (formValues) => {
      const data = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
      try {
        // ...
      } catch (graphQLErrors) {
        const errors = Array.isArray(graphQLErrors)
          ? graphQLErrors
          : [graphQLErrors];
        if (errors.length > 0)
          showApiErrorNotification({
            errors,
          });
      }
    },
    [showApiErrorNotification, /* ... */ ]
  );

  // ...
};
```

Following our [best practies](#notifications-best-practices), not all GraphQL errors should lead to dispatching an error notification.

> For instance, to provide users with the best experience we encourage to map errors related to particular form fields to field error messages (rather than dispatching a notification).

Reviewer: Only if we know the error related to the field. We should specify that.

---
title: Notifications
---

> In the previous section, we learned how to develop forms. In this section we look at how to communicate feedback to users using notifications, in particular in response to user actions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous section, we learned how to develop forms. In this section we look at how to communicate feedback to users using notifications, particularly in response to user actions.
```

Author: Thanks Douglas 👍

To facilitate the use of notifications, Custom Applications come with a built-in notification system.

# Notification system

Notifications are an important way of providing feedback in response to user actions.

> For example submitting a form might succeed or fail and as a result the user should be notified about that in a way that is understandable and easy to find.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, submitting a form might succeed or fail. As a result, the user should be notified about that in a way that is understandable and easy to find.
```

Notifications are grouped by what we call "domains." A domain indicates where the notification should be displayed on the page (for instance `page` and `side`).

Notifications are also of different types: `success`, `error`, `warning`, `info`. Depending on the specific use case you would choose the appropriate type. For example, if a form has been successfully submitted, you would show a "side" notification of kind `success`.

Triggering notifications is done by using some custom React hooks. Please refer to the package [`@commercetools-frontend/actions-global`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-actions-global) for implementation details.

<Info>

> For defining the domain and the type of a notification we recommend using the values exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For defining the domain and the type of a notification, we recommend using the values exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.
```

For instance:

```js
import {
  useShowNotification
} from '@commercetools-frontend/actions-global';
import { 
  DOMAINS, 
  NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE, // `error`, `warning`, `info`, `success`
  NOTIFICATION_KINDS_PAGE // `error`, `warning`, `info`, `success`, `unexpected-error`, `api-error`
} from '@commercetools-frontend/constants';

const showNotification = useShowNotification();

// success notification in side domain
showNotification({
  kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE.success,
  domain: DOMAINS.SIDE,
  text: 'Success 🎉',
});

// warning notification in page domain
showNotification({
  kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_PAGE.warning,
  domain: DOMAINS.PAGE,
  text: 'Warning ⚠️',
});

```

</Info>

<Warning>

Be mindful of Custom Application users convenience when dispatching notifications. Excessive and confusing notifications may lead to poor user experience.

</Warning>

## Page notifications

Page notifications are displayed on top of the content page. They have to be manually closed by default.

<Info>

> As a rule of thumb, `error` notifications should be diplayed in the `page` domain rather than the `side` domain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a rule of thumb, `error` notifications should be displayed in the `page` domain rather than the `side` domain.
```

import {
  useShowNotification,
  useShowApiErrorNotification,
} from "@commercetools-frontend/actions-global";
import { DOMAINS, NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE } from "@commercetools-frontend/constants";

const ChannelsDetails = (props) => {
  const dispatch = useAsyncDispatch();
  const showNotification = useShowNotification();
  const showApiErrorNotification = useShowApiErrorNotification();
  useEffect(() => {
    async function execute() {
      try {
        const result = await dispatch(
          actions.post({
            mcApiProxyTarget: MC_API_PROXY_TARGETS.COMMERCETOOLS_PLATFORM,
            service: "channels",
            options: { /* ... */ },
            payload: {
              // ...
            },
          })
        );
        // Update state with `result`
        showNotification({
          kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE.success,
          domain: DOMAINS.SIDE,
          text: "Channel updated! 🎉",
        });
      } catch (error) {
        // Update state with `error`
        showApiErrorNotification({ errors: error.body?.errors ?? [] });
      }
    }
    execute();
  }, [dispatch]);

  return (
    // ...
  );
};
```

# Usage with React class components

> If for some reason a notification must be dispatched from a React class component we cannot use React hooks exposed from the `@commercetools-frontend/actions-global` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If for some reason a notification must be dispatched from a React class component, we cannot use React hooks exposed from the `@commercetools-frontend/actions-global` package.
```

Instead, we should use a Redux action directly.

> At a bare minimum dispatching notifications could look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At a bare minimum, dispatching notifications could look like this:
```

---
title: Notifications
---

> In the previous sections, we learned how to develop forms. In this section we look at how to communicate feedback to users using notifications, in particular in response to user actions.

Reviewer 3: suggestion:
```suggestion
In the previous section, we learned how to develop forms. In this section we look at how to communicate feedback to users using notifications, in particular in response to user actions.
```

To facilitate the use of notifications, Custom Applications come with a built-in notification system.

> # Notification system

Reviewer 3: We have sections for `page` and `side` notifications but not for `global` ones.
Perhaps it would also be helpful to explain what use cases we recommend to use this kind of notifications for and how the look like.

Author: Thanks, we're omitting that on purpose (without going into too much detail) as this is mainly for internal use. We also don't document all the action creators/hooks that we use internally

Reviewer 3: Ok. Thanks for the explanation 👍

Notifications are an important way of providing feedback in response to user actions.
For example submitting a form might succeed or fail and as a result the user should be notified about that in a way that is understandable and easy to find.

> Notifications are grouped by what we call "domains". A domain indicates where the notification should be displayed on the page.

Reviewer 3: Below we are listing the different types so maybe we could do the same here:
```suggestion
Notifications are grouped by what we call "domains". A domain indicates where the notification should be displayed on the page (`global`, `page` and `side`).
```

Author: Thanks, I added `page` an `side` (and omitted `global` since we don't want to "advocate" for using that)

Reviewer 3: Ok. Good to know 😄

Notifications are also of different types: `success`, `error`, `warning`, `info`. Depending on the specific use case you would choose the appropriate type. For example, if a form has been successfully submitted, you would show a "side" notification of type `success`.

> Triggering notifications is done by dispatching global actions. Please refer to the package [`@commercetools-frontend/actions-global`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-actions-global) for implementation details.

Reviewer 3: Since we're recommending our users to use React hooks, I would mention them instead of _dispatching global actions_.
```suggestion
Triggering notifications is done by using some custom React hooks. Please refer to the package [`@commercetools-frontend/actions-global`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-actions-global) for implementation details.
```

<Info>

For defining the domain and the type of a notification we recommend using the values exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.

For instance:

```js
import {
  useShowNotification
} from '@commercetools-frontend/actions-global';
import { 
  DOMAINS, 
  NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE,

>   NOTIFICATION_KINDS_PAGE

Reviewer 3: I didn't understand why do we have different kinds per domain and have to look into the source code of `constants` packages.
It seems we are imposing some constraints on what kinds can be used in each domain.
Perhaps is this something we also want to explain?

Author: Yes, that's right, rather than "constraints" we call them "best practices" or "recommendations". They are already mentioned in `## Page notifications` and `## Side notifications` within `<Info>` section. Do you think that requires updating?

Reviewer 3: In those section we recommend which kind of notification a user should use in each domain, but, as a user, I was expecting to only have one `NOTIFICATION_KINDS` constant and didn't understand why there are different ones until I saw the code and realized we have slightly different kinds per domain.
Perhaps we don't want to go into that detail, but I was confused because of that.

Maybe we can wait to have other opinions (perhaps I'm the only one confused).

Reviewer: You mean these variations?

https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/d3166e9315b2cfcd2c00dd7f7dcd01357a9f0f2d/packages/constants/src/constants.ts#L19-L39

Yes good point, we should probably list them in each section (page and side).

showNotification({
  kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE.success,
  domain: DOMAINS.SIDE,
  text: 'Success 🎉',
});

// warning notification in page domain
showNotification({
  kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_PAGE.warning,
  domain: DOMAINS.PAGE,
  text: 'Warning ⚠️',
});

```

</Info>

<Warning>

Be mindful of Custom Application users convenience when dispatching notifications. Excessive and confusing notifications may lead to poor user experience.

</Warning>

## Page notifications

Page notifications are displayed on top of the content page. They have to be manually closed by default.

<Info>

As a rule of thumb, `error` notifications should be diplayed in the `page` domain rather than the `side` domain.<br />

</Info>

![Page notifications](/images/notifications-api-error.png)

## Side notifications

Side notifications are smaller than page notifications and they slide in from the right side of the page.
Success notifications in the `side` domain by default disappear after 5 seconds.

<Info>

We recommend displaying `success` notifications in the `side` domain.<br />

</Info>

![Side notifications](/images/notifications-side.png)

# Using notifications in a form

> Let's apply notifications in the `Channels` application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's implement notifications in the details page of the `Channels` application.
```

  const showNotification = useShowNotification();
  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    async (formValues) => {
      const data = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
      try {
        await updateChannel(data);
        showNotification({
          kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE.success,
          domain: DOMAINS.SIDE,
          text: 'Channel updated! 🎉',
        });
      } catch (graphQLErrors) {
        // show an error notification
      }
    },
    [showNotification, updateChannel]
  );

  if (!channel) {
    return <LoadingSpinner />;
  }

  return (
    <ChannelsForm
      initialValues={docToFormValues(channel, languages)}
      onSubmit={handleSubmit}
    >
      {(formProps) => {
        return (
          <FormModalPage
            title="Manage Channel"
            isOpen
            onClose={props.onClose}
            isPrimaryButtonDisabled={formProps.isSubmitting}
            onSecondaryButtonClick={formProps.handleCancel}
            onPrimaryButtonClick={formProps.submitForm}
          >
            {formProps.formElements}
          </FormModalPage>
        );
      }}
    </ChannelsForm>
  );
};
```

## Form submitted with errors

> Most of the time dispatching error notifications is associated with HTTP request handling. In this section we cover handling both GraphQL and REST APIs error on submitting a form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time dispatching error notifications is a result of handling API errors. For example, submitting a form is rejected by the API. In this section we look at some example of handling API errors for GraphQL and REST API requests.
```

Reviewer 3: I would also suggest to change ~~dispatching~~ by **displaying** (since we don't recommend using action creators but React hooks)

### GraphQL

<Info>

> More information about GraphQL errors can be found on the [GraphQL API page](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/graphql#error-response-format).

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this link, as this is only true for the CTP API.

How about we link to Apollo docs, as this is what Custom Applications use? https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/error-handling/

</Info>

The basic implementation of dispatching error notifications in the `Channels` application might look like this:
```js title="channels-details.js" highlightLines="3,8,15-21"
// ...
import { 
  useShowApiErrorNotification 
} from '@commercetools-frontend/actions-global';

const ChannelsDetails = (props) => {
  // ...
  const showApiErrorNotification = useShowApiErrorNotification();
  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    async (formValues) => {
      const data = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
      try {
        // ...
      } catch (graphQLErrors) {
        const errors = Array.isArray(graphQLErrors)
          ? graphQLErrors
          : [graphQLErrors];
        if (errors.length > 0)
          showApiErrorNotification({
            errors,
          });
      }
    },
    [showApiErrorNotification, /* ... */ ]
  );

  // ...
};
```

Following our recommendations, not all GraphQL errors should lead to dispatching an error notification.

> For instance, to provide users with the best experience we encourage to map known errors related to particular form fields to field error messages (rather than dispatching a notification).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, instead of showing an error notification we can try to map specific errors to their related form fields.
```

<Info>

> In the following code snippet we take advantage of the fact that a `Channel`'s `key` value [must be unique](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/projects/channels#channel).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following code snippet we take advantage of the fact that a Channel's `key` value [must be unique](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/projects/channels#channel).
```

> A request to update `Channel`'s `key` to a duplicated value results in error with `DuplicateField` error code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A request to update the Channel's `key` to a duplicated value results in an error with the `DuplicateField` error code.
```

More information about API errors can be found on the [API errors page](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/errors).

</Info>

> Having that in mind, we might for instance want to notify the user directly in the `<TextField>` error message in case they try to submit a value that has already been used.

Reviewer: I think this sentence can be omitted.

```js title="transform-errors.js"
import omitEmpty from 'omit-empty-es';

const DUPLICATE_FIELD_ERROR_CODE = 'DuplicateField'; // A particular error code returned by API that we wish to map to form field validation error

export const transformErrors = (graphQlErrors) => {
  const errorsToMap = Array.isArray(graphQlErrors)
    ? graphQlErrors
    : [graphQlErrors];

  const { formErrors, unmappedErrors } = errorsToMap.reduce(
    (transformedErrors, graphQlError) => {
      const errorCode = graphQlError?.extensions?.code ?? graphQlError.code;
      const fieldName = graphQlError?.extensions?.field ?? graphQlError.field;

      if (errorCode === DUPLICATE_FIELD_ERROR_CODE) {
        transformedErrors.formErrors[fieldName] = { duplicate: true };
      } else {
        transformedErrors.unmappedErrors.push(graphQlError);
      }
      return transformedErrors;
    },
    {
      formErrors: {}, // will be mappped to form field error messages
      unmappedErrors: [], // will result in dispatching `showApiErrorNotification`
    }
  );

  return {
    formErrors: omitEmpty(formErrors),
    unmappedErrors,
  };
};
```

> And then use it in the `<ChannelsDetails>` component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the form `onSubmit` handler we can then transform the errors, render them in the form (if needed) and dispatch an error notification.

```

```js title="channels-details.js" highlightLines="2,7,12-18"
// ...
import { transformErrors } from './transform-errors';

const ChannelsDetails = (props) => {
  // ...
  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    async (formValues, formikHelpers) => {
      const data = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
      try {
        // ...
      } catch (graphQLErrors) {
        const transformedErrors = transformErrors(graphQLErrors);
        if (transformedErrors.unmappedErrors.length > 0)
          showApiErrorNotification({
            errors: transformedErrors.unmappedErrors,
          });

        formikHelpers.setErrors(transformedErrors.formErrors);
      }
    },
    [ /* ... */ ]
  );
  // ...
};
```

Now `DuplicateField` errors related to the `key` field will be transformed to form validation errors and all other errors to API error notifications.

### REST

> For HTTP requests sent to REST API we may follow the same pattern as we used for [GraphQL](#graphql):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For HTTP requests sent to REST API we may follow the same pattern as we used for [GraphQL](#graphql) but use the special hook `showApiErrorNotification`:
```

Author: This one I don't fully get, we use `showApiErrorNotification `, right? 🤔

Instead, we should use a Redux action directly.

At a bare minimum dispatching notifications could look like this:

```jsx title="channel-updater.js" highlightLines="2-6,14-20,26-30,40"
import { Component } from 'react';
import { connect } from 'react-redux';
import {
  showNotification,
  showApiErrorNotification,
} from '@commercetools-frontend/actions-global';
import { DOMAINS, NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE } from '@commercetools-frontend/constants';
// ...

class ChannelsDetails extends Component {
  handleSubmit = (update) => async (formikValues) => {
    try {
      await update(formikValues);
      this.props.dispatch(
        showNotification({
          kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE.success,
          domain: DOMAINS.SIDE,
          text: 'Channel updated! 🎉',
        })
      );
    } catch (graphQLErrors) {
      const errors = Array.isArray(graphQLErrors)
        ? graphQLErrors
        : [graphQLErrors];
      if (errors.length > 0) {
        this.props.dispatch(
          showApiErrorNotification({
            errors,
          })
        );
      }
    }
  };
  render() {
    return (
      // ...
    );
  }
}
export default connect()(ChannelsDetails);
```

# Testing

> As Custom Application notification system relies on Redux use [`renderAppWithRedux`](https://docs.commercetools.com/custom-applications/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-application-shell#renderappwithredux) wrapper to render components for the sake of testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using the test render function [`renderAppWithRedux`](https://docs.commercetools.com/custom-applications/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-application-shell#renderappwithredux) when testing notifications, as they rely on Redux.
```

---
title: Notifications
---

In the previous section, we learned how to develop forms. In this section we look at how to communicate feedback to users using notifications, particularly in response to user actions.

To facilitate the use of notifications, Custom Applications come with a built-in notification system.

# Notification system

Notifications are an important way of providing feedback in response to user actions.
For example submitting a form might succeed or fail. As a result the user should be notified about that in a way that is understandable and easy to find.

Notifications are grouped by what we call "domains." A domain indicates where the notification should be displayed on the page (for instance `page` and `side`).

> Notifications are also of different types: `success`, `error`, `warning`, `info`. Depending on the specific use case you would choose the appropriate type. For example, if a form has been successfully submitted, you would show a "side" notification of kind `success`.

Author: Thank you for the review @adinakleine 😀

In this particular case our linter doesn't allow sentences starting with `There are`. Would the following be acceptable, or perhaps would you be able to help me with rephrasing that:
```suggestion
Various types of notifications are available: `success`, `error`, `warning`, `info`. Depending on the use case you choose the appropriate type. For example, if a form was submitted successfully, you would display a side notification of the type `success`.
```

> Notifications are also of different types: `success`, `error`, `warning`, `info`. Depending on the specific use case you would choose the appropriate type. For example, if a form has been successfully submitted, you would show a "side" notification of kind `success`.

Reviewer 4: Sure @kark My bad... `There are` is baaaaad style. Thanks! 🙌

Triggering notifications is done using some custom React hooks. Please refer to the [`@commercetools-frontend/actions-global`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-actions-global) package for implementation details.

<Info>

> For defining the `domain` and the `kind` of a notification, we recommend using the values exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.

Reviewer: Also, we should add the `NOTIFICATION_KINDS_*` to the docs page of that package as well.

> For defining the domain and the type of a notification, we recommend using the values exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.

Reviewer 3: Since `domain` and `type` are properties to be used with the notifications code, I think it worths it to highlight them:
```suggestion
For defining the `domain` and the `type` of a notification, we recommend using the values exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.
```

For instance:

```js
import {
  useShowNotification
} from '@commercetools-frontend/actions-global';
import { 
  DOMAINS, 
  NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE,
  NOTIFICATION_KINDS_PAGE
} from '@commercetools-frontend/constants';

const showNotification = useShowNotification();

// success notification in side domain
showNotification({
  kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE.success,
  domain: DOMAINS.SIDE,
  text: 'Success 🎉',
});

// warning notification in page domain
showNotification({
  kind: NOTIFICATION_KINDS_PAGE.warning,
  domain: DOMAINS.PAGE,
  text: 'Warning ⚠️',
});

```

</Info>

<Warning>

Be mindful of Custom Application users convenience when dispatching notifications. Excessive and confusing notifications may lead to poor user experience.

</Warning>

## Page notifications

Page notifications are displayed on top of the content page. They have to be manually closed by default.

<Info>

As a rule of thumb, `error` notifications should be displayed in the `page` domain rather than the `side` domain.

> For defining the kind of page notification we recommend using `NOTIFICATION_KINDS_PAGE` constant exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For defining the `kind` of page notification we recommend using `NOTIFICATION_KINDS_PAGE` constant exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.
```

The available values defined by the constant are `error`, `warning`, `info`, `success`, `unexpected-error` and `api-error`.

</Info>

![Page notifications](/images/notifications-api-error.png)

## Side notifications

Side notifications are smaller than page notifications and they slide in from the right side of the page.
Success notifications in the `side` domain by default disappear after 5 seconds.

<Info>

We recommend displaying `success` notifications in the `side` domain.

> For defining the kind of side notification we recommend using `NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE` constant exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For defining the `kind` of side notification we recommend using `NOTIFICATION_KINDS_SIDE` constant exposed from `@commercetools-frontend/constants`.
```

### GraphQL

<Info>

More information about GraphQL errors can be found in the [Apollo Client docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/error-handling/).

</Info>

The basic implementation of dispatching error notifications in the `Channels` application might look like this:
```js title="channels-details.js" highlightLines="3,8,15-21"
// ...
import { 
  useShowApiErrorNotification 
} from '@commercetools-frontend/actions-global';

const ChannelsDetails = (props) => {
  // ...
  const showApiErrorNotification = useShowApiErrorNotification();
  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    async (formValues) => {
      const data = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
      try {
        // ...
      } catch (graphQLErrors) {
        const errors = Array.isArray(graphQLErrors)
          ? graphQLErrors
          : [graphQLErrors];
        if (errors.length > 0)
          showApiErrorNotification({
            errors,
          });
      }
    },
    [showApiErrorNotification, /* ... */ ]
  );

  // ...
};
```

Following our recommendations, not all GraphQL errors should lead to dispatching an error notification.

> For instance, instead of showing an error notification we can try to map specific errors to their related form fields.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, instead of displaying an error notification, we can try to map specific errors to their related form fields.
```

<Info>

> In the following code snippet we take advantage of the fact that a Channel's `key` value [must be unique](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/projects/channels#channel).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the following code snippet, we take advantage of the fact that a Channel's `key` value [must be unique](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/projects/channels#channel).
```

A request to update the Channel's `key` to a duplicated value results in an error with the `DuplicateField` error code.

> More information about API errors can be found on the [API errors page](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/errors).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Find more information about API errors on the [API errors page](https://docs.commercetools.com/api/errors).
```
